[Music]
well you're finally on that long-awaited
vacay and the only thing on your brain
is fun and food if you're like me but
what you're forgetting is that you're a
prime target for thieves who love to hit
that cozy hotel room you've settled in
so how can you outsmart the bad guys and
keep your stuff safe
first of all leave your prized
possessions at home I'm sure you have an
important something you don't want to
part with but hey do you really need
that pair of diamond earrings or fancy
watch on a beach vacation and how
exactly are you planning to use your
pricey laptop on a sightseeing tour if
you don't need it
leave it at home and only pack the
essentials make use of that safe even if
you've decided to leave your precious
things at home you still probably have
your passport
cash and debit or credit cards with you
none of which you want to take with you
if say you're at the beach luckily most
hotel rooms have a safe where you can
store your valuables even if you have to
pay for this surface it's usually worth
the money just don't assume that in room
safes are foolproof the thing is that
almost all hotels have an emergency way
to open up be it a master code or a
master key and yes those things can fall
into the wrong hands
also most hotels warn that they're not
responsible for any theft that occurs in
the room even things stolen from a
personal safe
yeah the nerve luckily there's one
exception
if you leave your belongings in the safe
behind the front desk it will be the
hotel's responsibility should something
go missing use a lock for your
electronics let's say you've decided to
lug that laptop with you maybe your job
requires you to take work with you on
vacation
oh no thanks anyway most laptops can be
secured with a laptop cable lock just
attach it to something in mobile like a
piece of furniture or
radiator then you can even leave your
computer lying on the desk in your hotel
room although I still wouldn't be that
bold ask for a room on a higher floor it
may not always be possible to choose a
room when you check into a hotel but if
it is go for the third floor and above
by all means try to avoid a first floor
room especially if it doesn't face the
hotel's parking lot if first floor rooms
are the only ones available it better be
one that opens to the hotel courtyard or
even interior hallway and no matter what
floor your room is on keep the windows
locked and the curtains closed
whenever you head out keep your room
tidy the problem with leaving things
lying all around the place is that
either the cleaning staff or people
outside will see your belongings but
you're on the fourth floor so you're
good right I mean I did just tell you
that mm not quite
don't underestimate the lengths or
Heights thieves these days will go just
to get their hands on some expensive
stuff so always lock your things and
souvenirs away in suitcases even if
you're just going out for a few hours
you can also take security luggage
cables with you they'll let you tie your
bag to some stationary thing again
furniture radiator
take your pick as long as it doesn't
move make your room look and sound
occupied even when you're out you can
leave the radio or TV on and don't
switch the lights off just make sure the
noise doesn't disturb your neighbors
keeping the volume low but audible is
best now I know what you're thinking um
there are hotels where you need to
insert a key into a slot near the door
to make everything work what then huh
well in this case ask reception for a
spare key
make sure you've locked the door every
time you leave your room now hold on
before you call me Captain Obvious there
have been times when I felt like I
pretty much slam the door closed when
heading out
but then living by my own advice here I
checked it only to find that it opened
right up also
don't leave your door open or even
slightly ajar if you make a short trip
down the hall to I don't know help some
elderly person with their bags or
something it doesn't take much time to
sneak into a room and grab a cellphone
from the table lock everything up you
can not only before you go out but also
when you get ready for bed by everything
I mean the room door balcony doors and
windows in a lot of hotels balconies are
right next to each other and a thief can
easily climb across to get to your room
don't leave anything important out on
the balcony for the same reason and one
more thing when you're in the room use
the additional lock at all times not
just to prevent crime but also to keep
other guests from entering your room
when you're completely unprepared for an
unexpected visit yep such things do
happen when they make mistake at the
front desk and give a new visitor the
wrong key huh
keep the Do Not Disturb sign on your
door at all times obviously it'll keep
the cleaning staff out of your realm hey
unfortunately there are those with
sticky fingers but it also helps prevent
someone else from sneaking into your
room while it's being freshened up and
if you decide to leave it off because
you really need to have your room clean
take all your valuables with you or lock
them up securely however you should know
that the Do Not Disturb sign can't
guarantee the cleaning staff will stay
out of your room to make sure nobody
goes in there while you're away call
reception and say you don't want your
room clean ask for a new set of
electronic keys not a duplicate if
you've lost yours this way the lock on
your door will get reprogrammed so
anyone who finds your lost key or the
person who purposely took it can't get
in and don't assume that these hi-tech
doors can't get picked or hacked into it
does happen so it's best to use all the
other tips too in case you're
gets broken into at least the burglar
won't find anything of value if they do
get in don't flaunt your money no I'm
not talking about making it rain in the
hotel lobby
I mean don't count your cash anywhere in
public also even if you've bought
something awesome don't pull it out of
your bag to show your friends or travel
companions you're pretty much announcing
the fact that you have disposable money
to spend
get it always be on the alert if you
hear someone knock on your door saying
they're from the hotel staff well you
haven't asked for room service call the
front desk open the door only after they
confirm the person behind the door is
indeed a hotel employee don't just count
on seeing someone in a hotel uniform
when you look through the people you can
never be too sure and if you're still
suspicious don't unlock the security
chain when you open the door
it's not paranoia it's just being
careful and alert now just to prove that
all these tips can really make a
difference check this out about 42% of
people who were victim to hotel theft
left their belongings lying around the
room 45 percent didn't use the in room
safe and almost 30 percent were bathing
lounging in the room or sleeping when
the theft happened so stay cautious at
all times and don't let the relaxing
vacation atmosphere cloud your judgment
other than that have fun out there so
how do you protect your things while on
vacation let me know down in the
comments if you learned something new
today then give this video a like and
share it with a friend but hey don't go
anywhere just yet mm-hmm we have over
2,000 cool videos for you to check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video click on it and enjoy stay
on the bright side of life